Hi, my name is Brian Caffo and this is
a brief lecture on version control.
Remember the theme of this
course is contrasting
what happens in real life
versus the ideal data analysis.
I think version control is one of those
instances where it is exactly the ideal
for data analysis, but it's a fairly
easily attainable ideal as opposed to
many of the other topics in this class
where it's very hard to obtain it.
This version control just adds
a little bit of work, but
often saves you a lot of time.
So now, just to return to this quote,
When you write code,
keep in mind that you're
collaborating with your future self.
And the ability to look at your code and
go back to previous versions and
see the history of your
process is an incredibly
important part of data analysis.
So we've talked in our
report writing section,
we talked about how important it
is to create reproducible reports.
That's certainly one component of having
a very well done and documented data
analysis but keeping all your versioning
of your code as you go is another one.
Not only does it help you for
back up and archival purposes,
but it also helps keep a log of
exactly what you did, and for
data and analytic purposes.
So, in general,
version control is just good practice.
And, unlike a lot of the other topics
in this class, it's pretty easy and
it's directly under your control.
Having said that, I'll take this
moment to complain about Roger Pang.
And, so I've been using version
control for a long time.
I think the earliest version
control I used was RCS,
a fairly old version of version control.
And then CVS, which was another,
older version of version control.
And then Roger Peng at one point
came into my office and said,
everyone is using this program called
subversion, and you've got to switch.
No one's using CVS anymore.
And so, I resisted for a little bit.
And then I said, you know, Roger's almost
always right about computing things.
I'm going to switch.
Switch to subversion.
Which was a monumental effort changing
all my CVS repositories to Subversion
repositories.
And then the next day, Roger comes into
my office and says, everyone's using Git.
You gotta quit using Subversion.
So, I resisted then for
another long period of time to using
Git and stuck with Subversion.
But once I finally switched to git,
I was very happy about it.
And I've noticed that
I've been using Git for
a while and Git seems to be here to stay.
It's not gonna get supplanted by
the next version control system.
At least it doesn't appear to be so
any time soon.
At any rate, for the people that
you're managing, you should be
inspiring them to either use Git,
or Subversion,
or Mercurial or
some of these kinds of tools for
their analyses,
some of these version control tools.
So just to orient you
to the software I think
if I'm going to make a recommendation
I'm gonna suggest Git.
And so Git is the versioning
version control software.
It is what helps you
keep a complete history
of your code and your analysis files,
and if you want, even your data files.
And so on as you go.
So you can go backwards
to any point in time or
go forwards if you've gone back again.
Just at no point is anything that gets
checked into your Git repository does it
get lost.
So Git is the tool for
your version control and
then you need a place to host it.
Now you can do this yourself.
If your in a company presumably you
have version control systems in place.
If you're at a smaller company,
you might want to look at one
of these get hosting services.
Some of the most popular ones, at least
the two that I'm most familiar with
are GitHub which I think is clearly
the largest, and then Bitbucket.
So these are not version
control tools themselves,
these are hosting places where you
are pushing your code and files up.
This is, in essence,
hosting the Git software for you, and
then keeping track of your files.
And so they're wonderful tools and I would
highly suggest this as using Git and
using version control as
a part of best practices.
And as part of your management
strategy encouraging the use or
maybe requiring the use of these tools.